Hi, everybody.
Welcome to session 520,
Deploying and Scaling the iCal Server.
I've got a good crowd.
My name is Wilfredo Sanchez Vega.
I'm the engineering manager
for the iCal Server,
and we're gonna be talking about
how you can fit this into your
environment back at the office,
maybe even at home.
So iCal Server is Apple's
calendaring solution.
We introduced it with Leopard
just at the end of last year.
We talked about it last year
at WWDC and the year before.
It's all based on open
internet standards,
so we're not trying to lock anybody
into any kind of proprietary protocols.
We've got a very strong commitment to
doing everything using open standards,
and we're actively involved in
driving some of these standards
because they are emerging.
We interoperate as a result of
that with a variety of clients,
including, of course, iCal.
But as you'll see,
there are actually a handful of
other clients that are starting to
enter the space that interoperate
with our server as well.
And the entire project is open source.
So today you can actually go out
there and get our source code,
fiddle around with it,
and add whatever you need in
order to make it work for you.
And ideally contribute something back.
So what we're going
to talk about today is
Some of the features of the iCal Server,
so you can kind of see exactly what
you're getting into if you deploy it.
Talk a little bit about what's new in
some of the software updates that we've
been shipping since we launched Leopard.
This being a brand new product and
a new part of the server product,
we've been doing actually quite
a bit of work in the software
updates to address the comments that
we're getting back from our users.
And we're going to talk a
little bit about what you're
going to see in Snow Leopard.
Cyrus is also going to update you
on the status of all of the relevant
standards that we're working with.
There are many.
And then we're going to get into
some of the nitty-gritty about
how the iCal Server deploys.
And the whole talk will be
actually hopefully not too long
so that there will be plenty of
time for some Q&A at the end.
So just first up,
quick review of what kind of
standards I'm talking about.
First up is iCalendar,
which is just a text file
format that describes events.
It's simply this event
happens at this time.
It maybe recurs every Monday, Wednesday.
And when it ends,
you can also describe to-do
items and that sort of thing.
We've got another format called iTip,
which is a iCalendar transport
independent protocol,
and that enables you to talk
about scheduling a meeting.
So if I want to invite you to a meeting,
I can actually send you a message.
It looks a lot like iCalendar.
The only difference is that it
adds a little bit of glue to
tell you that I'm inviting you,
I'm accepting a meeting,
and that sort of thing.
We've got HTTP, which probably everybody
here is fairly familiar with,
but this is the protocol that
drives the entire iCalendar.
So you can see that I'm using a lot of
web and a great deal of the Internet.
And in order to actually make
that useful for authoring,
you've got to have some more stuff,
and that's WebDAV.